.TH FANOUT "1" "Nov 20 2008" "fanout"

.SH "NAME"
fanout \- copy one input stream to many output streams

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B fanout
[\fIRECORDSIZE\fR]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
fanout reads from stdin and writes the input to all open output file descriptors including stdout but excluding stderr.  stderr is used to report unexpected errors.  If an output file descriptor causes a write error due to the receiving end closing the stream, fanout will continue to write to the remaining output file descriptors.  If all output file descriptors (other than stderr) are closed, then fanout will terminate.  If the input file descriptor signals the end of the stream, fanout will also terminate.
.TP
When called without arguments, fanout will operate in line\-based mode.  In this mode, fanout will buffer an entire line of input before writing output to the output file descriptors.  If the last line read from the input is not terminated with a newline, fanout will still flush the last line before terminating.
.TP
When called with a number as the argument, fanout will operate in record\-based mode.  In this mode, fanout will read the specified number of bytes from input before writing the record to all outputs.  If the last line read from the input is incomplete (does not have the full record size), fanout will discard it.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBfaninany\fP(1), \fBgather\fP(1), \fBdeal(1)\fP, \fBdup\fP(1), \fBdupd\fP(1)

.SH "LEGAL NOTICE"
fanout is released under the GPL.

.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Please send electronic mail to <dup@cs.du.edu>
